What is a Signal Flow Graph?
SFG is a graphical representation of the relationship between the variables of a set of linear algebraic equations.

Terms used for a Signal Flow Graph
1. Node: It represents the system variable which equals to the sum of all signals. Outgoing signal from the node does not affect the value of node variables.
2. Branch: Branch is defined as a path from one node to another node, in the direction indicated by the branch arrow.
3. Input node or source: It is the node which has only outgoing branches.
4. Output node or sink: It is a node which has only incoming branches.
5. Mixed Node − It is a node, which has both incoming and outgoing branches.
6. Forward Path: It is a path from an input node to an output node in the direction of branch arrow.
7. Loop: It is a path that starts and ends at the same node.
8. Non-touching loop: Loop is said to be non-touching if they do not have any common node.
9. Forward path gain: A product of all branches gain along the forward path is called Forward path gain.
10. Loop Gain: Loop gain is the product of branch gain which travels in the loop.

Steps for solving signal flow graph of a control system
SFG from system equations:
First represent each variable of the equation by an individual node.
Further, we know the value of the variable at a node is obtained by summing up all the signals that are coming to that node. So, draw the branches to that node accordingly.
The coefficient of the variables present in an equation will be the gain of the branches that are joining the nodes.
Furthermore, locate the input and output variables of the equations in the signal flow graph.

SFG from Block Diagram:
Here the summing and take-off points are represented by the nodes. Thus, all the summing and take-off points of the block diagram should be named and must indicate a specific node.
Now, interconnect the various nodes using branches which was earlier connected through blocks in the block diagram representation.
Also, the block transfer function will now act as branch gain of the corresponding branch.
Further, show the input and output nodes individually in the signal flow graph to complete it.
